# FoolingTheDetector
## Overview
This repository contains the university project for the course "Digital Forensics and Biometrics 23/24" of the University of Padua for the Master's Degree in Cybersecurity.

In this project the task was "Given a database of synthetic images, design a strategy that fools synthetic image detectors". 

The workflow involved three main steps:
- Searching of an Image Detector
- Selection of a Database of images of the same period of the detector
- Implementation of Fooling Strategies using python

The tested different strategies were of two types:
- Addition of noises or something related/similar (e.g. Gaussian noise, addition of geometric shapes, blurring).
- Manipulation (e.g. Rotations, mirroring, compression).
 
## Materials and Methods 
- The database of images used was an old directory of airplanes images generated with GANs can be seens from this link [airplanes images](https://github.com/rickm01/foto_aerei/). There 400 images, the 200 from 0_aerei.zip are reals while the 200 ones from 1_aerei.zip are generated by GAN.  
- The detector used was the one proposed at this link [Detector Github](https://github.com/grip-unina/GANimageDetection).
- Every image was modified with different levels of intensity (e.g. different levels of gaussian noise). All the images are put in a directory that will be passed to the detector. The image detector is called on this directory and finally there is the plot of the results to see if the modification is effective and if there is a level that works for all images. This process is repeated to all the modifications tested in this project.

## Results
- Using Gaussian noise, compression and adding geometric shapes to the image, the detector was fooled for all the images.
- Rotations and blurring, instead, fooled the detector only in few images.
- Mirroring does not work for any image.

Detailed information can be seen from the final presentation of the project [final presentation pdf](https://github.com/rickm01/FoolingThedetector/ppt_presentation.pdf).

## Group Members
Riccardo Miele and Michele Gusella.
